README.md, before:

g4sim
=====

Simulation toolkit based on Geant4 and ROOT 

###1. Installation
#####Prerequirements:  
1.	CMake installed

	If CMake if not provided by your package manager, you can visit [CMake](http://www.cmake.org/) for source code then install CMake in this way:

		cd CMake
		./bootstrap
		./configure --prefix=path/to/CMake
		make
		make install
	
2.	Geant4 installed  
	[Geant4](http://geant4.cern.ch/)  
	If you want a UI with QT & OpenGL, please configure while installation.
	You can follow this way:

		cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path/to/Geant4\
			  -DGEANT4_INSTALL_DATA=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_GDML=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_G3TOG4=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_QT=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_OPENGL_X11=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_RAYTRACER_X11=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_INSTALL_EXAMPLES=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_SYSTEM_CLHEP=ON\
	      		  path/to/Geant4-source
		make
		make install
	      
	CLHEP and XERCES are required by Geant4. If they are not installed in standard directories, please specify:

			  -DCLHEP_ROOT_DIR=path/to/CLHEP -DXERCESC_ROOT_DIR=path/to/XERCES
	      		  
3.	ROOT installed  
	[ROOT](http://root.cern.ch/drupal/)  
	You can install ROOT in this way:

		cd root
		./configure --enable-opengl\
		          --enable-soversion\
		          --enable-mathcore\
		          --enable-mathmore\
		          --enable-gdml\
		          --enable-python\
		          --enable-roofit\
		          --enable-minuit2
		make
		
	If you met an error saying mathmore is not installed, a possible reason can be that GSL is not installed in a standard directory. You can configure with:

		--with-gsl-incdir=path/to/GSL/include --with-gsl-libdir=path/to/GSL/lib

#####Install:

	cd cmake
	cmake .
	make
	
###2. How to use
#####Prerequirements:  
	
1. 	Geant4 environment is set already.

	If not, then  

		source /path/to/geant4/bin/geant4.sh
		source /path/to/geant4/share/Geant4-*/geant4make/geant4make.sh
	
2.	ROOT environment is set already.

	If not, then  

		source /path/to/root/bin/thisroot.sh

3.	Your work directory has been created.

	Now we have `alcap` and `Example` sitting there.  
	`Example` is a simple simulation to show how `g4sim` works.
	It also serves as a template for someone who want to build another simulation.
	`alcap` is the default working directory for Alcap simulation.

4.	g4sim basic environment is set already.

	If not, go to your work directory and set environment:  

		cd alcap # or whatever working directory
		source setenv.sh

#####To Start:  

	g4sim [macros/run.mac]             # Choose any Geant4 macro file you want.
	                                   # without macro file it would enter interactive mode.  
A figure to show how it works:  
![Flow Diagram](docs/FlowDiagram.png "Flow Diagram")  
	                                   
#####To Configure alcap:  
By default (set in `setenv.sh`):

	GENFILEROOT=gen/gen_mum_up
	GEOCARDROOT=geometry_1217
	OUTCARDROOT=output/output_default
	
With this default environment set already you can start simulation with `/run/beamOn XXX` immediately.  
######GENFILEROOT:  
We provide couple ways to configure:  

1.	Use another configure file  

Currently we have these optional choices:  

	gen_mum_up      # Generate muon from upstream before MuPC
	gen_gam_tgt     # Generate gamma from target position

You can either set the environment variable `$GENFILEROOT` or use macro command `/g4sim/gun/ResetGen gen/gen_mum_up` in Geant4 session to reset generator setting based on this given configure file.  

2.	Modify some parameters using macro commands

Here are a couple of macro commands we can use:

Commit message:

CW: README under base directory will be a general tutorial to show how g4sim works, while README under alcap will elaborate works for alcap

README.md, after:

g4sim
=====

Simulation toolkit based on Geant4 and ROOT 

#1. Installation
##Prerequirements:  
1.	CMake installed

	If CMake if not provided by your package manager, you can visit [CMake](http://www.cmake.org/) for source code then install CMake in this way:

		cd CMake
		./bootstrap
		./configure --prefix=path/to/CMake
		make
		make install
	
2.	Geant4 installed  
	[Geant4](http://geant4.cern.ch/)  
	If you want a UI with QT & OpenGL, please configure while installation.
	You can follow this way:

		cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path/to/Geant4\
			  -DGEANT4_INSTALL_DATA=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_GDML=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_G3TOG4=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_QT=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_OPENGL_X11=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_RAYTRACER_X11=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_INSTALL_EXAMPLES=ON\
			  -DGEANT4_USE_SYSTEM_CLHEP=ON\
	      		  path/to/Geant4-source
		make
		make install
	      
	CLHEP and XERCES are required by Geant4. If they are not installed in standard directories, please specify:

			  -DCLHEP_ROOT_DIR=path/to/CLHEP -DXERCESC_ROOT_DIR=path/to/XERCES
	      		  
3.	ROOT installed  
	[ROOT](http://root.cern.ch/drupal/)  
	You can install ROOT in this way:

		cd root
		./configure --enable-opengl\
		          --enable-soversion\
		          --enable-mathcore\
		          --enable-mathmore\
		          --enable-gdml\
		          --enable-python\
		          --enable-roofit\
		          --enable-minuit2
		make
		
	If you met an error saying mathmore is not installed, a possible reason can be that GSL is not installed in a standard directory. You can configure with:

		--with-gsl-incdir=path/to/GSL/include --with-gsl-libdir=path/to/GSL/lib

##Install:

	cd cmake
	cmake .
	make
	
#2. How to use
##Prerequirements:  
	
1. 	Geant4 environment is set already.

	If not, then  

		source /path/to/geant4/bin/geant4.sh
		source /path/to/geant4/share/Geant4-*/geant4make/geant4make.sh
	
2.	ROOT environment is set already.

	If not, then  

		source /path/to/root/bin/thisroot.sh

3.	Your working directory has been created.

	`Example` is a working directory for a simple simulation to show how `g4sim` works.
	It also serves as a template for someone who want to build another simulation.

4.	g4sim basic environment is set already.

	If you have already set environment variable `$MYG4SIMROOT` to the directory of `g4sim`,
	you can go to working directory,
	otherwise you will need to  

			source env.sh  
	Then go to your working directory and set environment:  

			cd alcap # or whatever working directory
			source setenv.sh

##To Start:  

	g4sim [macros/run.mac]             # Choose any Geant4 macro file you want.
	                                   # without macro file it would enter interactive mode.  
A figure to show how it works:  
![Flow Diagram](docs/FlowDiagram.png "Flow Diagram")  
	                                   
##To Configure:  
By default (set in `setenv.sh`):

	GENFILEROOT=gen/gen_mum_up
	GEOCARDROOT=geometry_1217
	OUTCARDROOT=output/output_default
	
With this default environment set already you can start simulation with `/run/beamOn XXX` immediately.  
###GENFILEROOT:  
We provide couple ways to configure:  

1.	Use another configure file  

Currently we have these optional choices:  

	gen_mum_up      # Generate muon from upstream before MuPC
	gen_gam_tgt     # Generate gamma from target position

You can either set the environment variable `$GENFILEROOT` or use macro command `/g4sim/gun/ResetGen gen/gen_mum_up` in Geant4 session to reset generator setting based on this given configure file.  

2.	Modify some parameters using macro commands

Here are a couple of macro commands we can use:
